docs/user_manual/systemhandle/ros1_sh.rst, before:

.. _ros1_sh:

ROS 1 System Handle
===================

The main purpose of the *ROS 1 System Handle* is that of establishing a connection between a
*ROS 1* application and an application running over a different middleware implementation.
This is the classic use-case for Integration Service.

Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The only dependency of this *System Handle* is to have a `ROS 1 installation <http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Installation>`_ (`Melodic <http://wiki.ros.org/melodic/Installation>`_ or `Noetic <http://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation>`_) in your system.

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Regarding the *ROS 1 System Handle*, there are several specific parameters which can be configured
for the *ROS 1* middleware. All of these parameters are optional, and are suboptions of the main
five sections:

* :code:`systems`: The system :code:`type` must be :code:`ros1`. In addition to the :code:`type`
  and :code:`types-from` fields, the *ROS 1 System Handle* accepts the following specific configuration fields:

  .. code-block:: yaml

      systems:
        ros1:
          type: ros1
          node_name: "my_ros1_node"

  * :code:`node_name`: The *ROS 1 System Handle* node name.

* :code:`topics`: The topic :code:`route` must contain :code:`ros1` within its :code:`from` or :code:`to` fields.
  Additionally, the *ROS 1 System Handle* accepts the following topic specific configuration parameters,
  within the :code:`ros1` specific middleware configuration tag:

  .. code-block:: yaml

      routes:
        ros2_to_ros1: { from: ros2, to: ros1 }
        ros1_to_dds: { from: ros1, to: dds }

      topics:
        hello_ros1:
          type: std_msgs/String
          route: ros2_to_ros1
          ros1: { queue_size: 10, latch: false }
        hello_dds:
          type: std_msgs/String
          route: ros1_to_dds
          ros1: { queue_size: 5 }

  * :code:`queue_size`: The maximum message queue size for the *ROS 1* publisher or subscription.
  * :code:`latch`: Enable or disable latching. When a connection is latched,
    the last message published is saved and sent to any future subscribers that connect.
    This configuration parameter only makes sense for *ROS 1* publishers, so it is only useful for
    routes where the *ROS 1 System Handle* acts as a publisher, that is, for routes where :code:`ros1` is
    included in the :code:`to` list.

Examples
^^^^^^^^

There is one example that you can find in this documentation in which the *ROS 1 System Handle*
is employed in the communication:

* :ref:`ros1_ros2_bridge_pubsub`

.. _ros1_compilation_flags:

Compilation flags
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Besides the :ref:`global_compilation_flags` available for the
whole *Integration Service* product suite, there are some specific flags which apply only to the
*ROS 1 System Handle*; they are listed below:

* :code:`BUILD_ROS1_TESTS`: Allows to specifically compile the *ROS 1 System Handle* unitary and
  integration tests. It is useful to avoid compiling each *System Handle*'section test suite present
  in the :code:`colcon` workspace, which is what would happen if using the :code:`BUILD_TESTS` flag,
  with the objective of minimizing building time. To use it, after making sure that the *ROS 1 System Handle*
  is present in your :code:`colcon` workspace, execute the following command:

  .. code-block:: bash

      ~/is_ws$ colcon build --cmake-args -DBUILD_ROS1_TESTS=ON

* :code:`MIX_ROS_PACKAGES`: It accepts as an argument a list of `ROS packages <https://index.ros.org/packages/>`_,
  such as :code:`std_msgs`, :code:`geometry_msgs`, :code:`sensor_msgs`, :code:`nav_msgs`...
  for which the required transformation library to convert the specific *ROS 1* type definitions into *xTypes*,
  and the other way around, will be built. This list is shared with the `ROS 2 System Handle <https://github.com/eProsima/ROS2-SH#compilation-flags>`_,
  meaning that the ROS packages specified in the `MIX_ROS_PACKAGES` variable will also be built for *ROS 2*
  if the corresponding *System Handle* is present within the *Integration Service* workspace.
  To avoid possible errors, if a certain package is only present in *ROS 1*,
  the `MIX_ROS1_PACKAGES` flag must be used instead.

  These transformation libraries are also known within the *Integration Service*
  context as :code:`Middleware Interface Extension` or :code:`mix` libraries.

  By default, only the :code:`std_msgs_mix` library is compiled, unless the :code:`BUILD_TESTS`
  or :code:`BUILD_ROS1_TESTS` is used, case in which some additional ROS 1 packages :code:`mix` files
  required for testing will be built.

  If the user wants to compile some additional packages to use them with *Integration Service*,
  the following command must be launched to compile it, adding as much packages to the list as desired:

  .. code-block:: bash

      ~/is_ws$ colcon build --cmake-args -DMIX_ROS_PACKAGES="std_msgs geometry_msgs sensor_msgs nav_msgs"

* :code:`MIX_ROS1_PACKAGES`: It is used just as the `MIX_ROS_PACKAGES` flag, but will only affect *ROS 1*;
  this means that the `mix` generation engine will not search within the *ROS 2* packages,
  allowing to compile specific *ROS 1* packages independently.

  For example, if a user wants to compile a certain package `dummy_msgs` independently from *ROS 1*,
  but compiling `std_msgs` and `geometry_msgs` for both the *ROS 1* and *ROS 2 System Handles*,
  the following command should be executed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      ~/is_ws$ colcon build --cmake-args -DMIX_ROS_PACKAGES="std_msgs geometry_msgs" -DMIX_ROS2_PACKAGES="dummy_msgs"


.. TODO: complete when it is uploaded to read the docs

API Reference
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *Integration Service API Reference* constitutes an independent section within this documentation.
To access the *ROS 1 System Handle* subsection, use this :ref:`link <api_is_ros1_sh>`.

Commit message:

Finish services examples: links and crossed references (#33)
* Finish links and crossed references to services examples

Signed-off-by: Jose Antonio Moral <joseantoniomoralparras@gmail.com>

* Remove TODOs

Signed-off-by: Jose Antonio Moral <joseantoniomoralparras@gmail.com>

* Remove unnecessary instructions on readme

Signed-off-by: Jose Antonio Moral <joseantoniomoralparras@gmail.com>

* Extend tables to page width

* Documentation final review

Co-authored-by: laura-eprosima <laura@eprosima.com>

docs/user_manual/systemhandle/ros1_sh.rst, after:

.. _ros1_sh:

ROS 1 System Handle
===================

The main purpose of the *ROS 1 System Handle* is that of establishing a connection between a
*ROS 1* application and an application running over a different middleware implementation.
This is the classic use-case for Integration Service.

Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The only dependency of this *System Handle* is to have a `ROS 1 installation <http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Installation>`_ (`Melodic <http://wiki.ros.org/melodic/Installation>`_ or `Noetic <http://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation>`_) in your system.

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Regarding the *ROS 1 System Handle*, there are several specific parameters which can be configured
for the *ROS 1* middleware. All of these parameters are optional, and are suboptions of the main
five sections:

* :code:`systems`: The system :code:`type` must be :code:`ros1`. In addition to the :code:`type`
  and :code:`types-from` fields, the *ROS 1 System Handle* accepts the following specific configuration fields:

  .. code-block:: yaml

      systems:
        ros1:
          type: ros1
          node_name: "my_ros1_node"

  * :code:`node_name`: The *ROS 1 System Handle* node name.

* :code:`topics`: The topic :code:`route` must contain :code:`ros1` within its :code:`from` or :code:`to` fields.
  Additionally, the *ROS 1 System Handle* accepts the following topic specific configuration parameters,
  within the :code:`ros1` specific middleware configuration tag:

  .. code-block:: yaml

      routes:
        ros2_to_ros1: { from: ros2, to: ros1 }
        ros1_to_dds: { from: ros1, to: dds }

      topics:
        hello_ros1:
          type: std_msgs/String
          route: ros2_to_ros1
          ros1: { queue_size: 10, latch: false }
        hello_dds:
          type: std_msgs/String
          route: ros1_to_dds
          ros1: { queue_size: 5 }

  * :code:`queue_size`: The maximum message queue size for the *ROS 1* publisher or subscription.
  * :code:`latch`: Enable or disable latching. When a connection is latched,
    the last message published is saved and sent to any future subscribers that connect.
    This configuration parameter only makes sense for *ROS 1* publishers, so it is only useful for
    routes where the *ROS 1 System Handle* acts as a publisher, that is, for routes where :code:`ros1` is
    included in the :code:`to` list.

Examples
^^^^^^^^

There are several examples that you can find in this documentation in which the
*ROS 1 System Handle* is employed in the communication process. Some of them are presented here:

* :ref:`ros1_ros2_bridge_pubsub`
* :ref:`ros1_server_bridge`

.. _ros1_compilation_flags:

Compilation flags
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Besides the :ref:`global_compilation_flags` available for the
whole *Integration Service* product suite, there are some specific flags which apply only to the
*ROS 1 System Handle*; they are listed below:

* :code:`BUILD_ROS1_TESTS`: Allows to specifically compile the *ROS 1 System Handle* unitary and
  integration tests. It is useful to avoid compiling each *System Handle*'section test suite present
  in the :code:`colcon` workspace, which is what would happen if using the :code:`BUILD_TESTS` flag,
  with the objective of minimizing building time. To use it, after making sure that the *ROS 1 System Handle*
  is present in your :code:`colcon` workspace, execute the following command:

  .. code-block:: bash

      ~/is_ws$ colcon build --cmake-args -DBUILD_ROS1_TESTS=ON

* :code:`MIX_ROS_PACKAGES`: It accepts as an argument a list of `ROS packages <https://index.ros.org/packages/>`_,
  such as :code:`std_msgs`, :code:`geometry_msgs`, :code:`sensor_msgs`, :code:`nav_msgs`...
  for which the required transformation library to convert the specific *ROS 1* type definitions into *xTypes*,
  and the other way around, will be built. This list is shared with the `ROS 2 System Handle <https://github.com/eProsima/ROS2-SH#compilation-flags>`_,
  meaning that the ROS packages specified in the `MIX_ROS_PACKAGES` variable will also be built for *ROS 2*
  if the corresponding *System Handle* is present within the *Integration Service* workspace.
  To avoid possible errors, if a certain package is only present in *ROS 1*,
  the `MIX_ROS1_PACKAGES` flag must be used instead.

  These transformation libraries are also known within the *Integration Service*
  context as :code:`Middleware Interface Extension` or :code:`mix` libraries.

  By default, only the :code:`std_msgs_mix` library is compiled, unless the :code:`BUILD_TESTS`
  or :code:`BUILD_ROS1_TESTS` is used, case in which some additional ROS 1 packages :code:`mix` files
  required for testing will be built.

  If the user wants to compile some additional packages to use them with *Integration Service*,
  the following command must be launched to compile it, adding as much packages to the list as desired:

  .. code-block:: bash

      ~/is_ws$ colcon build --cmake-args -DMIX_ROS_PACKAGES="std_msgs geometry_msgs sensor_msgs nav_msgs"

* :code:`MIX_ROS1_PACKAGES`: It is used just as the `MIX_ROS_PACKAGES` flag, but will only affect *ROS 1*;
  this means that the `mix` generation engine will not search within the *ROS 2* packages,
  allowing to compile specific *ROS 1* packages independently.

  For example, if a user wants to compile a certain package `dummy_msgs` independently from *ROS 1*,
  but compiling `std_msgs` and `geometry_msgs` for both the *ROS 1* and *ROS 2 System Handles*,
  the following command should be executed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      ~/is_ws$ colcon build --cmake-args -DMIX_ROS_PACKAGES="std_msgs geometry_msgs" -DMIX_ROS2_PACKAGES="dummy_msgs"


API Reference
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The *Integration Service API Reference* constitutes an independent section within this documentation.
To access the *ROS 1 System Handle* subsection, use this :ref:`link <api_is_ros1_sh>`.
