docs/user_manual/systemhandle/sh.rst, before:

.. _sh:

System Handle
=============

As explained in the :ref:`Introduction <intro>`, a single :code:`integration-service`
instance can route any number of topics or services to/from any number of middlewares.

This occurs through the use of *System Handles*, which are system-specific plugins that allows
a certain middleware or communication protocol to speak the same language used by the *Integration Service*,
that is, Extensible and Dynamic Topic Types for DDS (`xTypes <https://github.com/eProsima/xtypes>`_).

.. image:: images/SH.png

.. _built_in_sh:

Built-in System Handles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section provides an insight over the existing built-in *System Handles* provided along with *Integration Service*
for connecting the core with the following middlewares or communication protocols:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   fastdds_sh
   fiware_sh
   ros1_sh
   ros2_sh
   websocket_sh

.. list-table::
    :name: available_shs
    :header-rows: 1
    :width: 100%

    * - Protocol
      - *System Handle* overview
    * - **Fast DDS**
      - :ref:`dds_sh`
    * - **FIWARE**
      - :ref:`fiware_sh`
    * - **ROS 1**
      - :ref:`ros1_sh`
    * - **ROS 2**
      - :ref:`ros2_sh`
    * - **WebSocket**
      - :ref:`websocket_sh`

Additional *System Handles* can be implemented by users, in order to have the desired middlewares
joining the *Integration Service* world. Adding a new *System Handle* automatically allows communication with the
rest of the protocols already available in this ecosystem.

.. _sh_implementation:

Implementation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section provides an overview of the architecture of a *System Handle*,
by depicting the class inheritance structure and specifying the methods which need to be implemented
in order to create a custom *System Handle*.

.. TODO: Rework this page to give more information that might be needed by the user.

Here you can find a diagram of a *System Handle* class inheritance structure.

.. image:: images/sh_hierarchy.png

Each *System Handle* must inherit, directly or indirectly, from the :code:`SystemHandle` superclass.
Depending on the nature of each protocol, it should implement the derived classes using multiple inheritance
from :code:`TopicSubscriberSystem`, :code:`TopicPublisherSystem`, :code:`ServiceClientSystem`,
and/or :code:`ServiceProviderSystem`.
To simplify this inheritance, classes :code:`TopicSystem`, :code:`ServiceSystem`, and :code:`FullSystem`
are available to inherit from.

In the diagram below, the architecture of a generic "Full" *System Handle* and its integration
into *Integration Service* is shown.

.. image:: images/sh_impl.png

To ease the implementation, the new :code:`system::SystemHandle`
will inherit from :code:`FullSystem`. The following sections will explain
the methods to be implemented.

To implement the :code:`TopicPublisher`, :code:`ServiceClient`, and :code:`ServiceProvider` interfaces, the most direct
way is to create child classes, respectively :code:`system::Publisher`, :code:`system::Client`,
and :code:`system::Server`. An additional class :code:`system::Subscriber` may be useful to manage the subscribers
created. In the example shown in the diagram above, the :code:`system::SystemHandle`
will contain the needed instances of these classes, but any approach may be valid if the interfaces are met.

SystemHandle Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All *System Handles* must implement the :code:`configure`, :code:`okay`, and :code:`spin_once` methods that belong to
the superclass:

.. code-block:: cpp

    bool configure(
        const RequiredTypes& types,
        const YAML::Node& configuration,
        TypeRegistry& type_registry);

    bool okay() const = 0;

    bool spin_once();

The :code:`configure` method is called to setup the *System Handle* with the associated :code:`configuration`,
defined in the *YAML* file that is passed to it.
The types that the SH needs to manage to implement the communication are passed to this method via the :code:`types`
argument, whereas the new types created by the *System Handle* are expected to be filled in the :code:`type_registry`.

The :code:`okay` method is called by *Integration Service* to check if the *System Handle* is working. This method will
verify internally if the middleware has any problem.

The :code:`spin_once` method is called by *Integration Service* to allow spinning to those middlewares that need it.

TopicSubscriberSystem Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This kind of system must implement the :code:`subscribe` method:

.. code-block:: cpp

    using SubscriptionCallback = std::function<void(const xtypes::DynamicData& message)>;

    bool subscribe(
        const std::string& topic_name,
        const xtypes::DynamicType& message_type,
        SubscriptionCallback callback,
        const YAML::Node& configuration);

*Integration Service* will call this method in order to create a new subscriber to the topic :code:`topic_name` using
:code:`message_type` type, plus an optional :code:`configuration`. Once the middleware system receives a message from
the subscription, the message must be translated into the :code:`message_type` and the *System Handle* must invoke
the :code:`callback` with the translated message.

TopicPublisherSystem Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This kind of system must implement the :code:`advertise` method:

.. code-block:: cpp

    std::shared_ptr<TopicPublisher> advertise(
        const std::string& topic_name,
        const xtypes::DynamicType& message_type,
        const YAML::Node& configuration);

*Integration Service* will call this method in order to create a new :code:`TopicPublisher`
to the topic :code:`topic_name` using :code:`message_type` type, and optional :code:`configuration`.

The :code:`TopicPublisher` is an interface that must be implemented by a :code:`Publisher` in order to allow
*Integration Service* to publish messages to the target middleware.
This interface defines a single method :code:`publish`:

.. code-block:: cpp

    bool publish(const xtypes::DynamicData& message);

When *Integration Service* needs to publish to the middleware system it will call the
:code:`TopicPublisher::publish` method, with a message that must be translated from the
:code:`message_type` parameter by the :code:`advertise` method above.

ServiceClientSystem Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This kind of system must implement the :code:`create_client_proxy` method:

.. code-block:: cpp

    using RequestCallback =
        std::function<void(
            const xtypes::DynamicData& request,
            ServiceClient& client,
            std::shared_ptr<void> call_handle)>;

    bool create_client_proxy(
        const std::string& service_name,
        const xtypes::DynamicType& service_type,
        RequestCallback callback,
        const YAML::Node& configuration);

*Integration Service* will call this method in order to create a new :code:`ServiceClient`
to the service :code:`service_name` using the :code:`service_type` type, plus an optional
:code:`configuration`. This :code:`ServiceClient` will be provided as an argument in the
:code:`callback` invocation when a response is received.

The :code:`ServiceClient` is an interface that must be implemented by a :code:`Client` in order to allow
*Integration Service* to relate a *request* with its *reply*.
This is done by providing a :code:`call_handle` both in the :code:`call_service` method from
:code:`ServiceProvider` and in the :code:`callback` from :code:`create_client_proxy` method.
When the *reply* is received by another *System Handle*, its :code:`ServiceProvider` will call the
:code:`receive_response` method from the :code:`Client`:

.. code-block:: cpp

    void receive_response(
        std::shared_ptr<void> call_handle,
        const xtypes::DynamicData& response);

The :code:`receive_response`:

- Translates the :code:`response` from :code:`service_type` and relate the :code:`call_handle`, if needed, to its
  middleware's request;
- Replies to its middleware.

ServiceProviderSystem Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This kind of system must implement the :code:`create_service_proxy` method:

.. code-block:: cpp

    std::shared_ptr<ServiceProvider> create_service_proxy(
        const std::string& service_name,
        const xtypes::DynamicType& service_type,
        const YAML::Node& configuration);

*Integration Service* will call this method in order to create a new :code:`ServiceProvider` to the
service :code:`service_name` using the :code:`service_type` type, plus an optional :code:`configuration`.

The :code:`ServiceProvider` is and interface that must be implemented by a :code:`Server`
in order to allow *Integration Service* to *request* (or call) a service from the target middleware.

.. code-block:: cpp

    void call_service(
        const xtypes::DynamicData& request,
        ServiceClient& client,
        std::shared_ptr<void> call_handle);

This :code:`call_service` method will translate the :code:`request` from :code:`service_type` and will call its
middleware service, which stores the related :code:`call_handle` and :code:`client`. Once it receives the response
from its middleware, it must translate back the response and retrieve the :code:`call_handle` and :code:`client`
related. Then, it will invoke the :code:`receive_response` method from the client using the :code:`call_handle`
as argument.


.. _sequence_diagrams:

Sequence diagrams
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following diagrams illustrate the previous sections using a *generic* *System Handle*.

TopicPublisher flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: images/topic_publisher.png

TopicSubscriber flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: images/topic_subscriber.png

ServiceClient flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note that a :code:`ServiceClient` acts as a client for *Integration Service* and as a server for the **middleware**.

.. image:: images/service_client.png

ServiceProvider flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note that a :code:`ServiceProvider` acts as a server for *Integration Service* and as a client for the **middleware**.

.. image:: images/service_provider.png

Commit message:

Fix build cmds when ROS 1 and ROS 2 coexist; add new is_internal_message doc
Signed-off-by: Jose Antonio Moral <joseantoniomoralparras@gmail.com>

docs/user_manual/systemhandle/sh.rst, after:

.. _sh:

System Handle
=============

As explained in the :ref:`Introduction <intro>`, a single :code:`integration-service`
instance can route any number of topics or services to/from any number of middlewares.

This occurs through the use of *System Handles*, which are system-specific plugins that allows
a certain middleware or communication protocol to speak the same language used by the *Integration Service*,
that is, Extensible and Dynamic Topic Types for DDS (`xTypes <https://github.com/eProsima/xtypes>`_).

.. image:: images/SH.png

.. _built_in_sh:

Built-in System Handles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section provides an insight over the existing built-in *System Handles* provided along with *Integration Service*
for connecting the core with the following middlewares or communication protocols:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   fastdds_sh
   fiware_sh
   ros1_sh
   ros2_sh
   websocket_sh

.. list-table::
    :name: available_shs
    :header-rows: 1
    :width: 100%

    * - Protocol
      - *System Handle* overview
    * - **Fast DDS**
      - :ref:`dds_sh`
    * - **FIWARE**
      - :ref:`fiware_sh`
    * - **ROS 1**
      - :ref:`ros1_sh`
    * - **ROS 2**
      - :ref:`ros2_sh`
    * - **WebSocket**
      - :ref:`websocket_sh`

Additional *System Handles* can be implemented by users, in order to have the desired middlewares
joining the *Integration Service* world. Adding a new *System Handle* automatically allows communication with the
rest of the protocols already available in this ecosystem.

.. _sh_implementation:

Implementation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section provides an overview of the architecture of a *System Handle*,
by depicting the class inheritance structure and specifying the methods which need to be implemented
in order to create a custom *System Handle*.

.. TODO: Rework this page to give more information that might be needed by the user.

Here you can find a diagram of a *System Handle* class inheritance structure.

.. image:: images/sh_hierarchy.png

Each *System Handle* must inherit, directly or indirectly, from the :code:`SystemHandle` superclass.
Depending on the nature of each protocol, it should implement the derived classes using multiple inheritance
from :code:`TopicSubscriberSystem`, :code:`TopicPublisherSystem`, :code:`ServiceClientSystem`,
and/or :code:`ServiceProviderSystem`.
To simplify this inheritance, classes :code:`TopicSystem`, :code:`ServiceSystem`, and :code:`FullSystem`
are available to inherit from.

In the diagram below, the architecture of a generic "Full" *System Handle* and its integration
into *Integration Service* is shown.

.. image:: images/sh_impl.png

To ease the implementation, the new :code:`system::SystemHandle`
will inherit from :code:`FullSystem`. The following sections will explain
the methods to be implemented.

To implement the :code:`TopicPublisher`, :code:`ServiceClient`, and :code:`ServiceProvider` interfaces, the most direct
way is to create child classes, respectively :code:`system::Publisher`, :code:`system::Client`,
and :code:`system::Server`. An additional class :code:`system::Subscriber` may be useful to manage the subscribers
created. In the example shown in the diagram above, the :code:`system::SystemHandle`
will contain the needed instances of these classes, but any approach may be valid if the interfaces are met.

SystemHandle Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All *System Handles* must implement the :code:`configure`, :code:`okay`, and :code:`spin_once` methods that belong to
the superclass:

.. code-block:: cpp

    bool configure(
        const RequiredTypes& types,
        const YAML::Node& configuration,
        TypeRegistry& type_registry);

    bool okay() const = 0;

    bool spin_once();

The :code:`configure` method is called to setup the *System Handle* with the associated :code:`configuration`,
defined in the *YAML* file that is passed to it.
The types that the SH needs to manage to implement the communication are passed to this method via the :code:`types`
argument, whereas the new types created by the *System Handle* are expected to be filled in the :code:`type_registry`.

The :code:`okay` method is called by *Integration Service* to check if the *System Handle* is working. This method will
verify internally if the middleware has any problem.

The :code:`spin_once` method is called by *Integration Service* to allow spinning to those middlewares that need it.

TopicSubscriberSystem Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This kind of system must implement the :code:`subscribe` and the :code:`is_internal_message` method:

.. code-block:: cpp

    using SubscriptionCallback = std::function<void(const xtypes::DynamicData& message, void* filter_handle)>;

    bool subscribe(
        const std::string& topic_name,
        const xtypes::DynamicType& message_type,
        SubscriptionCallback callback,
        const YAML::Node& configuration);

    bool is_internal_message(
        void* filter_handle);

*Integration Service* will call the :code:`subscribe` method in order to create a new subscriber
to the topic :code:`topic_name` using :code:`message_type` type, plus an optional :code:`configuration`.
Once the middleware system receives a message from the subscription, the message must be translated
into the :code:`message_type` and the *System Handle* must invoke the :code:`callback` with the translated message.

The :code:`callback` will be called only if the :code:`is_internal_message` method returns :code:`false`.
This prevents *Integration Service* from recursively send messages within itself, for example,
if a publisher and a subscriber are created pointing to the same topic. Users must define,
for each middleware, the type of the *filter_handle* parameter, and cast it accordingly.
Some protcols, such as *WebSocket*, might not need to filter its messages at all; in that case,
this method can be simply implemented as a :code:`return false;` clause.

TopicPublisherSystem Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This kind of system must implement the :code:`advertise` method:

.. code-block:: cpp

    std::shared_ptr<TopicPublisher> advertise(
        const std::string& topic_name,
        const xtypes::DynamicType& message_type,
        const YAML::Node& configuration);

*Integration Service* will call this method in order to create a new :code:`TopicPublisher`
to the topic :code:`topic_name` using :code:`message_type` type, and optional :code:`configuration`.

The :code:`TopicPublisher` is an interface that must be implemented by a :code:`Publisher` in order to allow
*Integration Service* to publish messages to the target middleware.
This interface defines a single method :code:`publish`:

.. code-block:: cpp

    bool publish(const xtypes::DynamicData& message);

When *Integration Service* needs to publish to the middleware system it will call the
:code:`TopicPublisher::publish` method, with a message that must be translated from the
:code:`message_type` parameter by the :code:`advertise` method above.

ServiceClientSystem Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This kind of system must implement the :code:`create_client_proxy` method:

.. code-block:: cpp

    using RequestCallback =
        std::function<void(
            const xtypes::DynamicData& request,
            ServiceClient& client,
            std::shared_ptr<void> call_handle)>;

    bool create_client_proxy(
        const std::string& service_name,
        const xtypes::DynamicType& service_type,
        RequestCallback callback,
        const YAML::Node& configuration);

*Integration Service* will call this method in order to create a new :code:`ServiceClient`
to the service :code:`service_name` using the :code:`service_type` type, plus an optional
:code:`configuration`. This :code:`ServiceClient` will be provided as an argument in the
:code:`callback` invocation when a response is received.

The :code:`ServiceClient` is an interface that must be implemented by a :code:`Client` in order to allow
*Integration Service* to relate a *request* with its *reply*.
This is done by providing a :code:`call_handle` both in the :code:`call_service` method from
:code:`ServiceProvider` and in the :code:`callback` from :code:`create_client_proxy` method.
When the *reply* is received by another *System Handle*, its :code:`ServiceProvider` will call the
:code:`receive_response` method from the :code:`Client`:

.. code-block:: cpp

    void receive_response(
        std::shared_ptr<void> call_handle,
        const xtypes::DynamicData& response);

The :code:`receive_response`:

- Translates the :code:`response` from :code:`service_type` and relate the :code:`call_handle`, if needed, to its
  middleware's request;
- Replies to its middleware.

ServiceProviderSystem Class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This kind of system must implement the :code:`create_service_proxy` method:

.. code-block:: cpp

    std::shared_ptr<ServiceProvider> create_service_proxy(
        const std::string& service_name,
        const xtypes::DynamicType& service_type,
        const YAML::Node& configuration);

*Integration Service* will call this method in order to create a new :code:`ServiceProvider` to the
service :code:`service_name` using the :code:`service_type` type, plus an optional :code:`configuration`.

The :code:`ServiceProvider` is and interface that must be implemented by a :code:`Server`
in order to allow *Integration Service* to *request* (or call) a service from the target middleware.

.. code-block:: cpp

    void call_service(
        const xtypes::DynamicData& request,
        ServiceClient& client,
        std::shared_ptr<void> call_handle);

This :code:`call_service` method will translate the :code:`request` from :code:`service_type` and will call its
middleware service, which stores the related :code:`call_handle` and :code:`client`. Once it receives the response
from its middleware, it must translate back the response and retrieve the :code:`call_handle` and :code:`client`
related. Then, it will invoke the :code:`receive_response` method from the client using the :code:`call_handle`
as argument.


.. _sequence_diagrams:

Sequence diagrams
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following diagrams illustrate the previous sections using a *generic* *System Handle*.

TopicPublisher flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: images/topic_publisher.png

TopicSubscriber flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: images/topic_subscriber.png

ServiceClient flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note that a :code:`ServiceClient` acts as a client for *Integration Service* and as a server for the **middleware**.

.. image:: images/service_client.png

ServiceProvider flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note that a :code:`ServiceProvider` acts as a server for *Integration Service* and as a client for the **middleware**.

.. image:: images/service_provider.png
