docs/examples/different_protocols/services/ros2-server.rst, before:

.. _ros2_server_bridge:

ROS 2 Service Server
====================

This example tackles the task of bridging a *ROS 2* server with one or more client applications,
implemented using a wide variety of protocols.

Specifically, we discuss how to forward petitions coming from *Fast DDS*, *ROS 1* and a *WebSocket*
service client applications to a *ROS 2* :code:`add_two_ints_server` server application,
from the built-in *ROS 2* package :code:`demo_nodes_cpp`;
so that it can process them and fulfill each request with a proper answer message.

.. image:: images/ros2-server.png

.. _ros2-server_requirements:

Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^

To prepare the deployment and setup the environment, you need to have *Integration Service*
correctly installed in your system.
To do so, please follow the steps delineated in the :ref:`installation` section.

Also, to get this example working, the following requirements must be met:

* Having **Fast DDS** (*v.2.0.0* or superior) installed and the *Integration Service*
  :code:`DDSAddTwoInts` example working.
  This example can be found in the main *Integration Service* repository, under the
  `examples/utils/dds/DDSAddTwoInts <https://github.com/eProsima/Integration-Service/tree/main/examples/utils/dds/DDSAddTwoInts>`_ folder;
  to compile it, you can either compile the whole *Integration Service* project using :code:`colcon` with the CMake flag
  :code:`BUILD_EXAMPLES` enabled; or execute the following steps:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cd ~/is-workspace/src/Integration-Service/examples/utils/dds/DDSAddTwoInts
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake .. -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=ON && make

* Having the **Fast DDS System Handle** installed. You can download it from the
  `FastDDS-SH dedicated repository <https://github.com/eProsima/FastDDS-SH>`_
  into the :code:`is-workspace` where you have *Integration Service* installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/is-workspace
      git clone https://github.com/eProsima/FastDDS-SH.git src/FastDDS-SH

* Having **ROS 1** (*Melodic* or superior) installed and the *Integration Service*
  :code:`example_interfaces` *ROS 1* package compiled.
  This package can be found in the main *Integration Service* repository, under the
  `examples/utils/ros1/src/example_interfaces <https://github.com/eProsima/Integration-Service/tree/main/examples/utils/ros1/src/example_interfaces>`_ folder.
  To compile and install it:

  .. code-block:: bash

      source /opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO/setup.bash
      cd ~/is-workspace/src/Integration-Service/example/utils/ros1
      catkin_make -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=ON -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO install

* Having the **ROS 1 System Handle** installed. You can download it from the
  `ROS1-SH dedicated repository <https://github.com/eProsima/ROS1-SH>`_ into the
  :code:`is-workspace` where you have *Integration Service* installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/is-workspace
      git clone https://github.com/eProsima/ROS1-SH.git src/ROS1-SH

* Having **ROS 2** (*Foxy* or superior) installed, along with the :code:`demo_nodes_cpp` package.
  To install it:

  .. code-block:: bash

      apt install ros-$ROS2_DISTRO-demo-nodes-cpp

* Having the **ROS 2 System Handle** installed. You can download it from the
  `ROS2-SH dedicated repository <https://github.com/eProsima/ROS2-SH>`_ into the :code:`is-workspace`
  where you have *Integration Service* installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/is-workspace
      git clone https://github.com/eProsima/ROS2-SH.git src/ROS2-SH src/ros2-sh

* Having `OpenSSL <https://www.openssl.org/>`_ and `WebSocket++ <https://github.com/zaphoyd/websocketpp>`_ installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      apt install libssl-dev libwebsocketpp-dev

* Having the **WebSocket System Handle** installed. You can download it from the `WebSocket-SH dedicated repository <https://github.com/eProsima/WebSocket-SH>`_ into the :code:`is-workspace` where you have *Integration Service* installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/is-workspace
      git clone https://github.com/eProsima/WebSocket-SH.git src/WebSocket-SH

After you have everything correctly installed in your :code:`is-workspace`, build the packages by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    colcon build --cmake-args -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=ON -DMIX_ROS_PACKAGES="example_interfaces"

Deployment
^^^^^^^^^^

Below we explain how to deploy a full example of this communication, calling the *ROS 2* service from
each of the available clients.

Launch the ROS 2 *demo_nodes_cpp* add_two_ints_server
-----------------------------------------------------

To do so, open a terminal and execute the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    source /opt/ros/$ROS2_DISTRO/setup.bash
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp add_two_ints_server

The server will start running as an independent *ROS 2* node, listening for incoming petitions.

Execute Integration Service
---------------------------

Open two terminals:

* In the first terminal, source the *ROS 1* installation and run the :code:`roscore`:

  .. code-block:: bash

      source /opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO/setup.bash
      roscore

* In the second terminal, go to the :code:`is-workspace` folder, source the *ROS 1*, *ROS 2* and local installations, and execute
  *Integration Service* with the :code:`integration-service` command followed by the
  `ros2_server__addtwoints.yaml <https://github.com/eProsima/Integration-Service/blob/main/examples/basic/ros2_server__addtwoints.yaml>`_
  configuration file located in the :code:`src/Integration-Service/examples/basic` folder.

  .. code-block:: bash

      source /opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO/setup.bash
      source /opt/ros/$ROS2_DISTRO/setup.bash
      source install/setup.bash
      integration-service src/Integration-Service/examples/basic/ros2_server__addtwoints.yaml

Call the service from Fast DDS
------------------------------

In a new terminal, go to the :code:`is-workspace` folder and execute the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    ./build/DDSAddTwoInts/DDSAddTwoInts -m client -c <number_of_requests>

The *DDSAddTwoInts* example application will request to add two numbers an specific amount of times,
specified with the :code:`-c` flag; if not present, ten requests will be performed by default.

For instance, if :code:`-c 4`, should see something like this in your screen,
indicating that the *ROS 2* server is processing the requests:

.. code-block:: bash

    AddTwoIntsService client running under DDS Domain ID: 0
    AddTwoIntsService client performing 4 requests.
    AddTwoIntsService client:
            - Request 1 + 3
            - Received response: 4
    AddTwoIntsService client:
            - Request 2 + 4
            - Received response: 6
    AddTwoIntsService client:
            - Request 3 + 5
            - Received response: 8
    AddTwoIntsService client:
            - Request 4 + 6
            - Received response: 10

Call the service from ROS 1
---------------------------

In a new terminal, source your *ROS 1* installation and invoke the service by executing the following
instructions:

.. code-block:: bash

    source /opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO/setup.bash
    rosservice call /add_two_ints 3 4

You should receive the following output from the *ROS 2* server processing the petition:

.. code-block:: bash

    sum: 7

Call the service from WebSocket
-------------------------------

The *WebSocket client* demo application used for this example can be found in the
`websocket.org/echo <https://www.websocket.org/echo.html>`_ webpage:

* First, under the **Location** section, connect to the *WebSocket server* automatically deployed by the *Integration Service*.
  To do so, and since the example is being run without SSL security,
  copy and paste the following URL into the *Location* field text box, and press **Connect**:

  .. code-block:: html

    ws://localhost:80

* Now it is time to advertise the service we want to use; to do so,
  under the *Message* text box, enter the following and press *Send*:

  .. code-block:: yaml

    {"op": "advertise_service", "service": "add_two_ints", "request_type": "AddTwoInts_Request", "reply_type": "AddTwoInts_Response"}

* Finally, after the service has been advertised, call it by sending the following message from the
  *WebSocket* echo:

  .. code-block:: yaml

    {"op": "call_service", "service": "add_two_ints", "args": {"a": 14, "b": 25}}

After this, in the *Log*, you should receive the following response from the *ROS 2* server:

.. code-block:: yaml

  RECEIVED: {"op":"service_response","result":true,"service":"add_two_ints","values":{"sum":39}}

Commit message:

Finish services examples: links and crossed references (#33)
* Finish links and crossed references to services examples

Signed-off-by: Jose Antonio Moral <joseantoniomoralparras@gmail.com>

* Remove TODOs

Signed-off-by: Jose Antonio Moral <joseantoniomoralparras@gmail.com>

* Remove unnecessary instructions on readme

Signed-off-by: Jose Antonio Moral <joseantoniomoralparras@gmail.com>

* Extend tables to page width

* Documentation final review

Co-authored-by: laura-eprosima <laura@eprosima.com>

docs/examples/different_protocols/services/ros2-server.rst, after:

.. _ros2_server_bridge:

ROS 2 Service Server
====================

This example tackles the task of bridging a *ROS 2* server with one or more client applications,
implemented using a wide variety of protocols.

Specifically, we discuss how to forward petitions coming from *Fast DDS*, *ROS 1* and a *WebSocket*
service client applications to a *ROS 2* :code:`add_two_ints_server` server application,
from the built-in *ROS 2* package :code:`demo_nodes_cpp`;
so that it can process them and fulfill each request with a proper answer message.

.. image:: images/ros2-server.png

.. note::

    If you are looking for an example on how to perform a service request from a *ROS 2* client
    to another protocol, please refer to any of the remaining examples in the
    :ref:`server/client examples <examples_different_protocols_services>` section.


.. _ros2-server_requirements:

Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^

To prepare the deployment and setup the environment, you need to have *Integration Service*
correctly installed in your system.
To do so, please follow the steps delineated in the :ref:`installation` section.

Also, to get this example working, the following requirements must be met:

* Having **Fast DDS** (*v.2.0.0* or superior) installed and the *Integration Service*
  :code:`DDSAddTwoInts` example working.
  This example can be found in the main *Integration Service* repository, under the
  `examples/utils/dds/DDSAddTwoInts <https://github.com/eProsima/Integration-Service/tree/main/examples/utils/dds/DDSAddTwoInts>`_ folder;
  to compile it, you can either compile the whole *Integration Service* project using :code:`colcon` with the CMake flag
  :code:`BUILD_EXAMPLES` enabled; or execute the following steps:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cd ~/is-workspace/src/Integration-Service/examples/utils/dds/DDSAddTwoInts
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake .. -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=ON && make

* Having the **Fast DDS System Handle** installed. You can download it from the
  `FastDDS-SH dedicated repository <https://github.com/eProsima/FastDDS-SH>`_
  into the :code:`is-workspace` where you have *Integration Service* installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/is-workspace
      git clone https://github.com/eProsima/FastDDS-SH.git src/FastDDS-SH

* Having **ROS 1** (*Melodic* or superior) installed and the *Integration Service*
  :code:`example_interfaces` *ROS 1* package compiled.
  This package can be found in the main *Integration Service* repository, under the
  `examples/utils/ros1/src/example_interfaces <https://github.com/eProsima/Integration-Service/tree/main/examples/utils/ros1/src/example_interfaces>`_ folder.
  To compile and install it:

  .. code-block:: bash

      source /opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO/setup.bash
      cd ~/is-workspace/src/Integration-Service/example/utils/ros1
      catkin_make -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=ON -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO install

* Having the **ROS 1 System Handle** installed. You can download it from the
  `ROS1-SH dedicated repository <https://github.com/eProsima/ROS1-SH>`_ into the
  :code:`is-workspace` where you have *Integration Service* installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/is-workspace
      git clone https://github.com/eProsima/ROS1-SH.git src/ROS1-SH

* Having **ROS 2** (*Foxy* or superior) installed, along with the :code:`demo_nodes_cpp` package.
  To install it:

  .. code-block:: bash

      apt install ros-$ROS2_DISTRO-demo-nodes-cpp

* Having the **ROS 2 System Handle** installed. You can download it from the
  `ROS2-SH dedicated repository <https://github.com/eProsima/ROS2-SH>`_ into the :code:`is-workspace`
  where you have *Integration Service* installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/is-workspace
      git clone https://github.com/eProsima/ROS2-SH.git src/ROS2-SH src/ros2-sh

* Having `OpenSSL <https://www.openssl.org/>`_ and `WebSocket++ <https://github.com/zaphoyd/websocketpp>`_ installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      apt install libssl-dev libwebsocketpp-dev

* Having the **WebSocket System Handle** installed. You can download it from the `WebSocket-SH dedicated repository <https://github.com/eProsima/WebSocket-SH>`_ into the :code:`is-workspace` where you have *Integration Service* installed:

  .. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/is-workspace
      git clone https://github.com/eProsima/WebSocket-SH.git src/WebSocket-SH

After you have everything correctly installed in your :code:`is-workspace`, build the packages by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    colcon build --cmake-args -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=ON -DMIX_ROS_PACKAGES="example_interfaces"

Deployment
^^^^^^^^^^

Below we explain how to deploy a full example of this communication, calling the *ROS 2* service from
each of the available clients.

Launch the ROS 2 *demo_nodes_cpp* add_two_ints_server
-----------------------------------------------------

To do so, open a terminal and execute the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    source /opt/ros/$ROS2_DISTRO/setup.bash
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp add_two_ints_server

The server will start running as an independent *ROS 2* node, listening for incoming petitions.

Execute Integration Service
---------------------------

Open two terminals:

* In the first terminal, source the *ROS 1* installation and run the :code:`roscore`:

  .. code-block:: bash

      source /opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO/setup.bash
      roscore

* In the second terminal, go to the :code:`is-workspace` folder, source the *ROS 1*, *ROS 2* and local installations, and execute
  *Integration Service* with the :code:`integration-service` command followed by the
  `ros2_server__addtwoints.yaml <https://github.com/eProsima/Integration-Service/blob/main/examples/basic/ros2_server__addtwoints.yaml>`_
  configuration file located in the :code:`src/Integration-Service/examples/basic` folder.

  .. code-block:: bash

      source /opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO/setup.bash
      source /opt/ros/$ROS2_DISTRO/setup.bash
      source install/setup.bash
      integration-service src/Integration-Service/examples/basic/ros2_server__addtwoints.yaml

Call the service from Fast DDS
------------------------------

In a new terminal, go to the :code:`is-workspace` folder and execute the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    ./build/DDSAddTwoInts/DDSAddTwoInts -m client -c <number_of_requests>

The *DDSAddTwoInts* example application will request to add two numbers an specific amount of times,
specified with the :code:`-c` flag; if not present, ten requests will be performed by default.

For instance, if :code:`-c 4`, should see something like this in your screen,
indicating that the *ROS 2* server is processing the requests:

.. code-block:: bash

    AddTwoIntsService client running under DDS Domain ID: 0
    AddTwoIntsService client performing 4 requests.
    AddTwoIntsService client:
            - Request 1 + 3
            - Received response: 4
    AddTwoIntsService client:
            - Request 2 + 4
            - Received response: 6
    AddTwoIntsService client:
            - Request 3 + 5
            - Received response: 8
    AddTwoIntsService client:
            - Request 4 + 6
            - Received response: 10

Call the service from ROS 1
---------------------------

In a new terminal, source your *ROS 1* installation and invoke the service by executing the following
instructions:

.. code-block:: bash

    source /opt/ros/$ROS1_DISTRO/setup.bash
    rosservice call /add_two_ints 3 4

You should receive the following output from the *ROS 2* server processing the petition:

.. code-block:: bash

    sum: 7

Call the service from WebSocket
-------------------------------

The *WebSocket client* demo application used for this example can be found in the
`websocket.org/echo <https://www.websocket.org/echo.html>`_ webpage:

* First, under the **Location** section, connect to the *WebSocket server* automatically deployed by the *Integration Service*.
  To do so, and since the example is being run without SSL security,
  copy and paste the following URL into the *Location* field text box, and press **Connect**:

  .. code-block:: html

    ws://localhost:80

* Now it is time to advertise the service we want to use; to do so,
  under the *Message* text box, enter the following and press *Send*:

  .. code-block:: yaml

    {"op": "advertise_service", "service": "add_two_ints", "request_type": "AddTwoInts_Request", "reply_type": "AddTwoInts_Response"}

* Finally, after the service has been advertised, call it by sending the following message from the
  *WebSocket* echo:

  .. code-block:: yaml

    {"op": "call_service", "service": "add_two_ints", "args": {"a": 14, "b": 25}}

After this, in the *Log*, you should receive the following response from the *ROS 2* server:

.. code-block:: yaml

  RECEIVED: {"op":"service_response","result":true,"service":"add_two_ints","values":{"sum":39}}
