v2.0.0
^^^^^^

This release includes the following *bugfixes* and *improvements*:


**Core**

* Fix segfault when converting integer types to/from the *Core* language to the specific protocol.

* *JSON* conversion library: fix vector-of-bool conversions.

* *JSON* conversion library: allow more flexibility in converting JSON values into strings.

* Support for *ROS 1* boolean type being cast as uint8_t.

* Fix template substitution for string templates that have an ending substring.

* Support dispatch templates for topic names.


**Fast DDS System Handle**

* Added *Fast DDS System Handle*, with complete support for publication/subscription and services.


**ROS 1 System Handle**

* Avoid infinite waiting if a request do not reach the remote service.

* Fixed file separator trouble with topic names containing a :code:`/`.

* Include the *Core* as a dependency of the *genmsg* package.

* Allow, via *YAML* configuration parameters, to specify custom names for *ROS 1* nodes.

* Remove `package.xml` files, because they confuse `colcon`.

* Added latching and queue_size specific topic configuration parameters.


**ROS 2 System Handle**

* Avoid infinite waiting if a request do not reach the remote service.

* Fixed file separator trouble with topic names containing a :code:`/`.

* Include the *Core* as a dependency of the *rosidl* package.

* Support for both *ROS 2 Crystal* and *Dashing*.

* Have *CMake* throw a fatal error when dependencies are missing.

* Corrected format.

* Support for *ROS 2* domain change.


**WebSocket System Handle**

* Update *WebSocket System Handle* tests, so the TLS handshake works.

* Have *CMake* throw a fatal error when dependencies are missing.
