docs/binaries.rst, before:

Installation from Binaries
==========================

You can always download the latest binary release of *eProsima Integration Services* from the `company website <http://www.eprosima.com/>`_.

Installation for Windows 7 32-bit and 64-bit
--------------------------------------------

Execute the installer and follow the instructions, choosing your preferred Visual Studio version and architecture when prompted.

Environment Variables
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*eProsima Integration Services* requires the following environment variables setup in order to function properly

* FASTRTPSHOME: Root folder where *eProsima Integration Services* is installed.
* Additions to the PATH: the /bin folder and the subfolder for your Visual Studio version of choice should be appended to the PATH.

These variables are set automatically by checking the corresponding box during the installation process.

Installation for Linux
----------------------

Extract the contents of the package. Fast-RTPS must be already installed.

Configure the compilation:

::

        $ ./configure --libdir=/usr/lib

If you didn't installed Fast-RTPS in the default path, you must provide to autotools the path of fastrtps and fastcdr libraries, for example:

::

        $ ./configure LDFLAGS='-L/home/user/Fast-RTPS/lib/libfastrtps.so -L/home/user/Fast-RTPS/lib/libfastcdr.so' --libdir=/usr/lib

If you want to compile with debug symbols (which also enables verbose mode):

::

        $ ./configure CXXFLAGS="-g -D__DEBUG" --libdir=/usr/lib

After configuring the project compile and install the library:

::

        $ sudo make install

Once installed if you want to use Integration Services as a public shared library:

::

        $ sudo ldconfig

Commit message:

Update IS Documentation with the new features (#6)
* Refs #3815 Rename all references to "Integration Services" to "Integration Service"

* Refs #3815 (WIP) Reader/Writer rename

* Refs #3815. Fix several grammatical issues on the documentation.

* Refs #3815 (WIP) Reader/Writer rename

* Refs #3815 FilePublisher to FileWriter

* Refs #3815. Update every reference from Publisher and Subscriber to Writer and Reader

* Refs #3815 Images updated and plantuml code added.

* Refs #3815 Fix minor issues and update the link to ReadTheDocs

* Refs #3815 Fix minor issues and update the link to ReadTheDocs

* Refs #3815 Improved connector and bridge definitions and relationship.

* Refs #3619 Fix minor issues in the documentation.

* Refs #3933 New TOC and structure as starting point.

* Refs #3933 Added concepts and terms.

* Refs #3933 Modified readme doc.

* Refs #3933 Modified readme doc.

* Refs #3933 Fixed link section

* Refs #3933 fixed misprint

* Refs #3933 Adapted readme to guidelines

* Refs #3933 Review and fix README and improved concepts_terms.

* Refs #3933 Fixed concepts_terms.

* Refs #3933 Fixed word.

* Refs #3933 Update configuration section

* Refs #3933 technical doc (libraries) added. Review os configuration. Other fixes.

* Refs #3933 WIP Communication two DDS Apps use case.

* Refs #3933 Communication two DDS Apps use case.

* Refs #3933 Grammarly until Routing with IS (not included)

* Refs #3933 Move XML code to an external file

* Ref #3933 Modified data transformation example

* Ref #3933 Removed transformation from communicate dds use case.

* Refs #3933 Update every diagram to the new model using InkScape

* Refs #3933 Added Dynamic Types Use Case

* Refs #3933 Update every cpp code from technical file

* Refs #3933 TCP use cases.

docs/binaries.rst, after:

Installation from Binaries
==========================

You can always download the latest binary release of *eProsima Integration Service* from the `company website <http://www.eprosima.com/>`_.

Installation for Windows 7 32-bit and 64-bit
--------------------------------------------

Execute the installer and follow the instructions, choosing your preferred Visual Studio version and architecture when prompted.

Environment Variables
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*eProsima Integration Service* requires the following environment variables setup in order to function properly

* FASTRTPSHOME: Root folder where *eProsima Integration Service* is installed.
* Additions to the PATH: the /bin folder and the subfolder for your Visual Studio version of choice should be appended to the PATH.

These variables are set automatically by checking the corresponding box during the installation process.

Installation for Linux
----------------------

Extract the contents of the package. `Fast-RTPS <https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-RTPS/>`_ must be already installed. 

Configure the compilation:

::

        $ ./configure --libdir=/usr/lib

If you haven't installed Fast-RTPS in the default path, you must provide to autotools the path of fastrtps and fastcdr libraries, for example:

::

        $ ./configure LDFLAGS='-L/home/user/Fast-RTPS/lib/libfastrtps.so -L/home/user/Fast-RTPS/lib/libfastcdr.so' --libdir=/usr/lib

If you want to compile with debug symbols (which also enables verbose mode):

::

        $ ./configure CXXFLAGS="-g -D__DEBUG" --libdir=/usr/lib

After configuring the project, compile and install the library:

::

        $ sudo make install

Once installed, if you want to use Integration Service as a public shared library:

::

        $ sudo ldconfig
