docs/concepts_terms.rst, before:

Concepts and Terms
==================

Before configuring and using *Integration Service* here you can find the concepts and terms you should know before
reading the rest of the documentation.

* **Integration Service**: *Integration Service* is often named as *IS*.
* **ISWriter**: An ``ISWriter`` (or *Writer*) is a component able to write data to a destination protocol.
* **ISReader**: An ``ISReader`` (or *Reader*) is a component able to read data from a source protocol.
* **Transformation Function**: A *Transformation Function* is a function that converts between data types.
* **Transformation Library**: A *Transformation Library* is a library that contains *Transformation Functions*.
* **Endpoint**: An *Endpoint* is a *Writer* or *Reader*.
* **Connector**: A *Connector* is a component that relates a *Reader* with a *Writer* and optionally a *Transformation Function*.
* **ISBridge**: An ``ISBridge`` is a component that holds a set of connectors and manages them.
* **Bridge Library**: A *Bridge Library* (or *Bridge*) is a library that provides *Writers* and *Readers* to support additional protocols and optionally more complex *Bridges*.

.. TODO, change the URL to point to *Fast RTPS* Concepts and Terms.

You should know `Fast-RTPS's Concepts and Terms <http://docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/introduction.html>`__ too.

You can interact with *Integration Service* at two different levels:

* As a stand-alone application.
* As a library.

If you use *IS* as a library, you must provide the configuration XML file programmatically.

Integration Service architecture
---------------------------------

*IS* provides three interfaces that must be implemented by any *bridge* that you want to use. This classes are
:ref:`isbridge`, :ref:`iswriter` and :ref:`isreader`. There is an :ref:`rtps-bridge`
implementation as default, that uses *Fast RTPS* libraries.

*IS* is intended to communicate *Fast RTPS* with others protocols when using *bridges*, so any :ref:`connector`
must have at least one *endpoint* configured as a *Fast RTPS* participant.

When you implement your ``ISBridge`` derived class, you must take into account:

- Only :class:`ISWriter::write` is mandatory to implement.
- When your *reader* receives data, you must call :class:`on_received_data` function with the data properly converted into :class:`SerializedPayload_t`.
- You can override the default behaviour but isn't recommended in general. This behaviour follows this diagram:

.. image:: flow.png
    :align: center

When the *reader* calls to its method :class:`on_received_data`, it will call all the *bridges* it belongs,
calling the method :class:`on_received_data` of each *bridge*.
Then the *bridges* will apply each respective :ref:`transformation functions <Transformation Library>`
to the data and will call the :class:`write` method of each of their *writers*.
Note that there are two flavors of these called methods that must be coherent between them
depending on the use of dynamic data or not.
This behaviour will only occur with the declared *connectors* in the XML configuration file.

Connector
---------

A *connector* is a pair *reader*/*writer* with an optional :ref:`transformation function <Transformation Library>`.
Internally represents a route that the data will follow, applied by its *bridge*.
If a *transformation function* was defined, then it will be applied before the data is
sent to the *writers*.

.. image:: RTPS_other_connector.png
   :align: center

Commit message:

Documentation review (#8)
* Refs #3933 Review technical documentation

* Refs #3933 Fix issues with tabs in the cpp code and apply small changes to the explanations

* Refs #3933 Update the diagrams of the domain change using InkScape

* Refs #3933 Update the documentation of the domain change use case

* Refs #3933 Grammarly fix

* Refs #3933 Added newprotocol section.

* Refs #3933 Update the documentation of the data transformation use case

* Refs #3933 Index, Configuration and Concepts and terms sections using impersonal style and grammarly passed.

* Refs #3933 Update the documentation of the dynamic data use case

* Refs #3933 Technical page using impersonal style and grammarly checked.

* Refs #3933 DDS Example reviewed with grammarly

* Refs #3933 Transform case reviewed with grammarly

* Refs #3933 Update the documentation of the tcp use case

* Refs #3933 Dynamic data case reviewed with grammarly.

* Refs #3933 Update the documentation of the new protocols with new diagrams

* Refs #3933 TCP case reviewed with grammarly.

* Refs #3933 BridgeAPI section reviewed with impersonal style and grammarly.

* Refs #3933 Fix small issues in the new protocols section

* Refs #3933 Reviewed previous sections of new protocols.

* Refs #3933 Finished with impersonal style newprotocol and grammarly checked. Fixed some links.

* Refs #3933 Removed unused files, old documentation and minor fixes.

* Refs #3950 Review Readme.md

* Refs #3950 Links reviewed and fixed where possible.

* Refs #3933 Update the documentation adding links to the documentation of FastRTPSGen

* Refs #3860 Created a new page with the information of the Readme.md as "Getting Started"

* Refs #3860 Fix labels issue

* Refs #3933 Fix issues reported in the review.

docs/concepts_terms.rst, after:

Concepts and Terms
==================

Before configuring and using *Integration Service* some concepts and terms should be known before
reading the rest of the documentation.

* **Integration Service**: *Integration Service* can be named as *IS*.
* **ISWriter**: An ``ISWriter`` (or *Writer*) is a component able to write data to a destination protocol.
* **ISReader**: An ``ISReader`` (or *Reader*) is a component able to read data from a source protocol.
* **Transformation Function**: A *Transformation Function* is a function that converts between data types.
* **Transformation Library**: A *Transformation Library* is a library that contains *Transformation Functions*.
* **Endpoint**: An *Endpoint* is a *Writer* or *Reader*.
* **Connector**: A *Connector* is a component that relates a *Reader* with a *Writer* and optionally a *Transformation Function*.
* **ISBridge**: An ``ISBridge`` is a component that holds a set of connectors and manages them.
* **Bridge Library**: A *Bridge Library* (or *Bridge*) is a library that provides *Writers* and *Readers* to support additional protocols and optionally more complex *Bridges*.

.. TODO, change the URL to point to *Fast RTPS* Concepts and Terms.

`Fast-RTPS's Concepts and Terms <http://docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/introduction.html>`__ should be known too.

*Integration Service* allows user interaction at two different levels:

* As a stand-alone application.
* As a library.

When using *IS* as a library, a configuration XML file must be programmatically provided.

Integration Service architecture
---------------------------------

*IS* provides three interfaces that must be implemented by any new custom *bridge* to allow new protocols.
These classes are :ref:`isbridge`, :ref:`iswriter`, and :ref:`isreader`.
There is an :ref:`rtps-bridge` implementation as default, that uses *Fast RTPS* libraries.

*IS* is intended to communicate *Fast RTPS* with others protocols when using *bridges*, so any :ref:`connector`
must have at least one *endpoint* configured as a *Fast RTPS* participant.

When implementing ``ISBridge`` derived classes, the following points must be taken into account:

- Only :class:`ISWriter::write` is mandatory to implement.
- When a *reader* receives data, its :class:`on_received_data` function must be called with the data properly converted into :class:`SerializedPayload_t`.
- The default behavior can be overridden but isn't recommended in general. This behavior follows this diagram:

.. image:: flow.png
    :align: center

When the *reader* calls to its method :class:`on_received_data`, it will call all the *bridges* it belongs,
calling the method :class:`on_received_data` of each *bridge*.
Then the *bridges* will apply each respective :ref:`transformation functions <Transformation Library>`
to the data and will call the :class:`write` method of each of their *writers*.
Note that there are two flavors of these called methods that must be coherent between them
depending on the use of dynamic data or not.
This behavior will only occur with the declared *connectors* in the XML configuration file.

Connector
---------

A *connector* is a pair *reader*/*writer* with an optional :ref:`transformation function <Transformation Library>`.
Internally represents a route that the data will follow, applied by its *bridge*.
If a *transformation function* was defined, then it will be applied before the data is
sent to the *writers*.

.. image:: RTPS_other_connector.png
   :align: center
